# arXiv — 2010-07


## Improved construction of irregular progressive edge-growth Tanner graphs

- **ID**: arxiv:1007.3588v2
- **Type**: preprint
- **Published**: 2010-07-21
- **Authors**: Jesus Martinez-Mateo, David Elkouss, Vicente Martin
- **PDF**: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1007.3588v2
- **Abstract**: The progressive edge-growth algorithm is a well-known procedure to construct regular and irregular low-density parity-check codes. In this paper, we propose a modification of the original algorithm that improves the performance of these codes in the waterfall region when constructing codes complying with both, check and symbol node degree distributions. The proposed algorithm is thus interesting if a family of irregular codes with a complex check node degree distribution is used.

## Second-Order Weight Distributions

- **ID**: arxiv:1007.3108v3
- **Type**: preprint
- **Published**: 2010-07-19
- **Authors**: Shengtian Yang
- **PDF**: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1007.3108v3
- **Abstract**: A fundamental property of codes, the second-order weight distribution, is proposed to solve the problems such as computing second moments of weight distributions of linear code ensembles. A series of results, parallel to those for weight distributions, is established for second-order weight distributions. In particular, an analogue of MacWilliams identities is proved. The second-order weight distributions of regular LDPC code ensembles are then computed. As easy consequences, the second moments of weight distributions of regular LDPC code ensembles are obtained. Furthermore, the application of second-order weight distributions in random coding approach is discussed. The second-order weight distributions of the ensembles generated by a so-called 2-good random generator or parity-check matrix are computed, where a 2-good random matrix is a kind of generalization of the uniformly distributed random matrix over a finite filed and is very useful for solving problems that involve pairwise or triple-wise properties of sequences. It is shown that the 2-good property is reflected in the second-order weight distribution, which thus plays a fundamental role in some well-known problems in coding theory and combinatorics. An example of linear intersecting codes is finally provided to illustrate this fact.

## Quantum Error Correction beyond the Bounded Distance Decoding Limit

- **ID**: arxiv:1007.1778v2
- **Type**: preprint
- **Published**: 2010-07-11
- **Authors**: Kenta Kasai, Manabu Hagiwara, Hideki Imai +1
- **PDF**: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1007.1778v2
- **Abstract**: In this paper, we consider quantum error correction over depolarizing channels with non-binary low-density parity-check codes defined over Galois field of size $2^p$ . The proposed quantum error correcting codes are based on the binary quasi-cyclic CSS (Calderbank, Shor and Steane) codes. The resulting quantum codes outperform the best known quantum codes and surpass the performance limit of the bounded distance decoder. By increasing the size of the underlying Galois field, i.e., $2^p$, the error floors are considerably improved.

## Low Complexity Linear Programming Decoding of Nonbinary Linear Codes

- **ID**: arxiv:1007.1368v2
- **Type**: preprint
- **Published**: 2010-07-08
- **Authors**: Mayur Punekar, Mark F. Flanagan
- **PDF**: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1007.1368v2
- **Abstract**: Linear Programming (LP) decoding of Low-Density Parity-Check (LDPC) codes has attracted much attention in the research community in the past few years. The aim of LP decoding is to develop an algorithm which has error-correcting performance similar to that of the Sum-Product (SP) decoding algorithm, while at the same time it should be amenable to mathematical analysis. The LP decoding algorithm has also been extended to nonbinary linear codes by Flanagan et al. However, the most important problem with LP decoding for both binary and nonbinary linear codes is that the complexity of standard LP solvers such as the simplex algorithm remain prohibitively large for codes of moderate to large block length. To address this problem, Vontobel et al. proposed a low complexity LP decoding algorithm for binary linear codes which has complexity linear in the block length. In this paper, we extend the latter work and propose a low-complexity LP decoding algorithm for nonbinary linear codes. We use the LP formulation proposed by Flanagan et al. as a basis and derive a pair of primal-dual LP formulations. The dual LP is then used to develop the low-complexity LP decoding algorithm for nonbinary linear codes. In contrast to the binary low-complexity LP decoding algorithm, our proposed algorithm is not directly related to the nonbinary SP algorithm. Nevertheless, the complexity of the proposed algorithm is linear in the block length and is limited mainly by the maximum check node degree. As a proof of concept, we also present a simulation result for a $[80,48]$ LDPC code defined over $\mathbb{Z}_4$ using quaternary phase-shift keying over the AWGN channel, and we show that the error-correcting performance of the proposed LP decoding algorithm is similar to that of the standard LP decoding using the simplex solver.

## LDPC Code Design for Transmission of Correlated Sources Across Noisy Channels Without CSIT

- **ID**: arxiv:1007.0931v1
- **Type**: preprint
- **Published**: 2010-07-06
- **Authors**: Arvind Yedla, Henry D. Pfister, Krishna R. Narayanan
- **PDF**: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1007.0931v1
- **Abstract**: We consider the problem of transmitting correlated data after independent encoding to a central receiver through orthogonal channels. We assume that the channel state information is not known at the transmitter. The receiver has access to both the source correlation and the channel state information. We provide a generic framework for analyzing the performance of joint iterative decoding, using density evolution. Using differential evolution, we design punctured systematic LDPC codes to maximize the region of achievable channel conditions, with joint iterative decoding. The main contribution of this paper is to demonstrate that properly designed LDPC can perform well simultaneously over a wide range of channel parameters.

## Fountain Codes with Multiplicatively Repeated Non-Binary LDPC Codes

- **ID**: arxiv:1007.0799v2
- **Type**: preprint
- **Published**: 2010-07-06
- **Authors**: Kenta Kasai, Kohichi Sakaniwa
- **PDF**: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1007.0799v2
- **Abstract**: We study fountain codes transmitted over the binary-input symmetric-output channel. For channels with small capacity, receivers needs to collects many channel outputs to recover information bits. Since a collected channel output yields a check node in the decoding Tanner graph, the channel with small capacity leads to large decoding complexity. In this paper, we introduce a novel fountain coding scheme with non-binary LDPC codes. The decoding complexity of the proposed fountain code does not depend on the channel. Numerical experiments show that the proposed codes exhibit better performance than conventional fountain codes, especially for small number of information bits.

## Quasi-Cyclic Asymptotically Regular LDPC Codes

- **ID**: arxiv:1007.0404v1
- **Type**: preprint
- **Published**: 2010-07-02
- **Authors**: David G. M. Mitchell, Roxana Smarandache, Michael Lentmaier +1
- **PDF**: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1007.0404v1
- **Abstract**: Families of "asymptotically regular" LDPC block code ensembles can be formed by terminating (J,K)-regular protograph-based LDPC convolutional codes. By varying the termination length, we obtain a large selection of LDPC block code ensembles with varying code rates, minimum distance that grows linearly with block length, and capacity approaching iterative decoding thresholds, despite the fact that the terminated ensembles are almost regular. In this paper, we investigate the properties of the quasi-cyclic (QC) members of such an ensemble. We show that an upper bound on the minimum Hamming distance of members of the QC sub-ensemble can be improved by careful choice of the component protographs used in the code construction. Further, we show that the upper bound on the minimum distance can be improved by using arrays of circulants in a graph cover of the protograph.
